Gravitational lensing has been used for over three decades as effectively the only tool to reveal the nature of "dark" sources in the Milky Way. "Dark" sources include stars, planets, black holes, or even dark matter. The crux of efficient data utilization in light curve detection is pivotal for discovering dark objects. We hypothesized that by using six hundred thousand stars as data obtained from The Zwicky Transient Facility, a telescope at Caltech that can scan the entire northern sky in two days, we could use Artificial Intelligence to increase the speed and accuracy of microlensing research. The main purpose of this project was to distinguish between microlensing and non-microlensing events, the former of which could be dark matter events. Through the rigorous testing of various Artificial Models, including Linear Regression, KNN, SVC, Decision Tree, and others, coupled with advanced data visualization techniques, we conduct a comparative analysis to discern disparities in accuracy, precision, and other statistical metrics among these models. Through hyperparameter tuning and the elimination of false positives, the KNN model was confirmed to be the most accurate model, generating a 97% accuracy for the detection of source stars within the Milky Way that can be confirmed to show a microlensing event by future work. This scientific inquiry aims to improve future searches for microlensing events, ultimately expediting the current scientific processes employed in microlensing detection and helping astronomers place constraints on the nature of dark matter through AI.
